initial WSL docs update (#535)
betaflight/betaflight.com: docs/development/building/Building-in-Windows.md

The official Microsoft instruction to install WSL is https://msdn.microsoft.com/commandline/wsl/install_guide; However, we will include our own instructions below.

## Install the Ubuntu (WSL) in Windows 11

Enable WSL2 by opening "Control Panel", "Programs", "Turn Windows features on or off", selecting "Windows Subsystem for Linux", "Hyper-V" and press OK. Reboot if required.

From the Microsoft Store, install the latest Ubuntu LTS (Long Term Support). Reboot if required.

Launch from windows search your Ubuntu, by typing Ubuntu. In the bash screen that opens add a user (lower case) and password.

The Linux system like Ubuntu use an "administrator" which has privileged commands and correspond to user `root` (like windows administrator) then we have regular users we can name as we want. Let's enable administrator!! In a command prompt type `wsl -u root`, then type `passwd root` and set your root password.

In the bash window type `AllowRoot=true`.

> Login as root typing "su root" and login with your root password

Reviewer: Where is this documented. Using root account directly is bad practice

Reviewer 2: I would suggest to use root for the part  apt update && upgrade and to edit dns in /etc/resolv.conf. Then exit and run everything inside the folder as user, adding a user to sudoers could create a mess if you don't know what you are doing. Many user may not even notice the difference between mat@DESKTOP-3GPNC8J~$  and  root@DESKTOP-3GPNC8J:~$

Author: i saw this video, where the prompt does not seem to need any setup of root login nor password:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/28b7a37d-a35e-4bb2-a109-3a383c921014)

My VM is almost finished updates at which time i will snapshot and begin testing.

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9a993be7-8e3a-4e39-b157-ef10e3085dc9)
from https://www.quora.com/How-do-you-use-sudo-without-root-access#:~:text=If%20you%20don't%20have,execute%20commands%20with%20elevated%20privileges.

Since i enabled root in wsl, i can run priviled commands just with sudo:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c25eb596-b691-4ef4-b73b-c477dc9530fd)

Author: pushed cleanup and condensed instruction.
i did not need to do anything with root.  my new user prompted at first Ubuntu launch was able to sudo.  i link help for other cases.

---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: Building in Windows
title: Building in Windows
---

# Building on Windows 11 using the Linux Subsystem

> A new feature in since Windows 10 allows any developer to quickly and easily run an entire Linux subsystem in Windows (WSL) and access it via a `bash` terminal. This gives developers full use of the entire Linux OS and all of the great existing Linux tools and programs. When Bash for Windows is up and running it feels like you ssh'd into a full Linux box, except the Linux distro is actually running alongside Windows locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Windows 10, there is a new feature that allows any developer to quickly and easily run a complete Linux subsystem in Windows (WSL) and access it via a `bash` terminal. This gives developers full use of the entire Linux OS and all of the great existing Linux tools and programs. When Bash for Windows is up and running it feels like you ssh'd into a full Linux box, except the Linux distro is actually running alongside Windows locally.
```

:::note
Linux systems like Ubuntu use an administrator account named `root` which has privileged rights. Regular users can elevate to root privileges with the `sudo` command.

If your newly created user has issue with sudo or otherwise does not have privileges, please refer to option 2 or 3 here: https://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/128094-add-remove-list-sudo-users-wsl-linux-distro-windows-10-a.html#option2
:::

:::note
If you have Internet connectivity issues from within Ubuntu (WSL), then please solve using some of these methods: https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=wsl%20no%20internet%20on%20public%20network.

Specifically substituting DNS resolution nameservers with known good DNS servers like 1.1.1.1 (Cloudflare), 8.8.8.8 (Google), or 208.67.222.222 (OpenDNS).
:::

:::info
The file system mapping of WSL is mounted into `Ubuntu 24.04 //wsl/localhost` . They are accessible, but they are mounted with `root:root` permissions. This causes permission issues with a lot of things and leads to errors when trying to build Betaflight from a repository that was cloned in Linux on a local disk under Windows. Therefore, always access, modify and build from the Ubuntu `bash` terminal.

> Example folder: `\\wsl.localhost\Ubuntu-22.04\home\username\Git\betaflight`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example folder: `\\wsl.localhost\Ubuntu-24.04\home\username\Git\betaflight`.
```

Example:

```
mkdir Git
cd Git
```

:::

Once you have Ubuntu (WSL) `bash` running properly on Windows, you can follow the "[Building in Ubuntu](Building-in-Ubuntu)" instructions for building Betaflight.

:::note
Linux systems like Ubuntu use an administrator account named `root` which has privileged rights. Regular users can elevate to root privileges with the `sudo` command.

If your newly created user has issue with sudo or otherwise does not have privileges, please refer to option 2 or 3 here: https://www.tenforums.com/tutorials/128094-add-remove-list-sudo-users-wsl-linux-distro-windows-10-a.html#option2
:::

:::note
If you have Internet connectivity issues from within Ubuntu (WSL), then please solve using some of these methods: https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=wsl%20no%20internet%20on%20public%20network.

Specifically substituting DNS resolution nameservers with known good DNS servers like 1.1.1.1 (Cloudflare), 8.8.8.8 (Google), or 208.67.222.222 (OpenDNS).
:::

:::info

> The file system mapping of WSL is mounted into `Ubuntu 22.0.4 //wsl/localhost` . They are accessible, but they are mounted with `root:root` permissions. This causes permission issues with a lot of things and leads to errors when trying to build Betaflight from a repository that was cloned in Linux on a local disk under Windows. Therefore, always access, modify and build from the Ubuntu `bash` terminal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The file system mapping of WSL is mounted into `Ubuntu 24.04 //wsl/localhost` . They are accessible, but they are mounted with `root:root` permissions. This causes permission issues with a lot of things and leads to errors when trying to build Betaflight from a repository that was cloned in Linux on a local disk under Windows. Therefore, always access, modify and build from the Ubuntu `bash` terminal.
```

shutdown.exe /r /f /t 5
```

After reboot, continue with the following steps.

> By default WSL is configured for 2GB memory usage. Use the Start-menu to search for and open `WSL Settings`. Increase WSL's `Memory Size` to at least `4096`. (Note, some targets will compile with only 2048, but newer G4 and H7 may not.)

Reviewer: What is the size of the VM you are testing this in ?
See also https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl-config#main-wsl-settings

Author: 4GB vRAM with 4GB WSL.  H7 and G4 worked, now testing `make all` (slow).

Author: maybe i'll convert this to a `:::tip` or `:::note`.

Reviewer: or `:::warning` :)
